---
layout: post
title:  "New Life in the time of COVID-19"
---

What a way to start a new blog - new blow, new story about a new life… amidst new living arrangements because we’re smack in the middle of a COVID-19 induced semi-lockdown in Singapore. <!--more--> Documenting a ​pregnancy ​ has never been on my to-do list - because I never planned to get pregnant so soon after getting married. I’m writing this now at 20 weeks (and 4? 5? days), because my husband is egging me on to write about this whole experience and someday share it with the world. 
 
**Finding Out** 

I expected pregnancy to be like a big brick that drops on your toe. An immediate heavy change that you couldn’t ignore, a slap in the face, something noticeable that burst through the doors and sent you running to the nearest pharmacy for a test kit with shaking hands.  
 
I quit my job before our wedding, and after our honeymoon I spent days on the sofa or in bed trying to adjust to my hermit funemployed life. Laziness turned to lethargy, and the two soon blended in an indistinguishable cloud as I lay there counting the hours till my husband came home and gave me some human company again.  
 
I didn’t have energy to do much, and I attributed that to my laziness and basic potato-ism of lying around the house all day. I spent my time on laundry and tidying the house and kitchen, fetching groceries and cooking - 
 
And then one day it began.  
 
Browsing my daily food options from Foodpanda made me feel a little sickly. I told myself maybe I just wasn’t in the mood (or blamed my lethargy again on my funemployment status). I found myself increasingly ordering porridge. One day I felt extra hungry and placed an order for ​*bak chor mee*. While waiting I couldn’t help myself and scarfed down an entire bag of Calbee Seaweed Potato Chips.  
 
The noodles arrived. I opened the lid, took a whiff of the meat on top and immediately felt sick in my stomach. I turned on the TV, told myself “maybe I shouldn’t have had all those potato chips”, and tried to continue with my meal. The noodles I could manage. The meat drove me mad. And that was the first red flag.  
 
From then on, mealtimes were a chore - even with Joey. One date night, he drove us out for dinner. I sat in the front seat feeling queasy, and promptly blamed it on my texting habits which have a history of making me carsick. We arrived at the restaurant, and I was still feeling weak and weird. I couldn’t bear to eat any of the food - except a comforting bowl of good old spaghetti bolognese.  
 
That’s when Joey started to get really worried and suspicious, telling me that lately I wasn’t acting myself anymore. One Saturday afternoon after lunch with our couple friends who were expecting, we decided to get it over with - because if it weren’t a pregnancy it could be cause for bigger worry.  
 
Those fears didn’t last long. The lines appeared before I could even get off the toilet bowl and we were in shock.  
 
**Reality Check** 

Did we plan to have kids so soon? No, we did not.  Well when did we plan to have them? No clue, no idea. This had just never crossed my mind, other than a general idea of women’s biological clocks yada yada.  
 
We had our actual honeymoon booked, and all I could think about was having to sacrifice my carefully planned wine/sangria-filled itinerary to walk around Portugal and Spain with a pregnant woman belly.  
 
At this point in January I was still funemployed and waiting for my new job - so of course I had way too much time on my hands and began to do what every pregnant woman really should not do - I googled.  
 
I googled deep and wide, and found myself in a dark section of Reddit, discussing…. *taboo trigger warning* abortions in Singapore. The reality of it - how much it cost, where you could get it done legally, cleanly and with the least questions asked, what were the different options available and the pros/cons of each.  
 
I’m Catholic, so this was some really dark shit for me. But I convinced myself that having a baby when I was not ready was also not in the best interests of the child. Besides, according to what I had read, it would be over before I (or the child) knew it. I told myself it couldn’t be that bad - the only thing stopping me was my moral compass, telling me this just felt wrong. I needed backup, but I wasn’t sure if there was anyone I could talk to who would tell me what I needed to hear.  
 
By the time my husband got home, I was putting our dinner on the table and close to tears as I asked him “Are we really keeping it?” His face went dark and blank, and for a moment I was afraid he was going to leave this decision entirely with me. I don’t know what I wanted right then, I guess I just needed to know we’d be okay. I don’t remember his exact answer, because I was busy crying my eyes out. But I knew he didn’t see that as an option unless I wanted it badly, and I saw how hurt he looked that I even suggested it.  
 
So - I promised to stop looking things up and let the pregnancy take its course.  
 
**First Trimester in a Nutshell** 

My mother had the worst time when she was expecting. She threw up the entire pregnancy and I was so sure that was going to be me too. But apart from the slight food aversions I’d developed, and my boobs which were getting huge (this is actually awesome), my first trimester was a breeze. Sure, I’d slept a little more than usual. Besides that, you wouldn’t even have known I was pregnant!  
 
We picked a gynae and started going for check-ups, and the first time that little image appeared on the screen my husband’s face was frozen in an expression I’d never seen before. When she played her heartbeat I was at a loss for words at how fast and strong it was in there, that tiny little heart busily pumping away.  
 
TURNS OUT, I actually have PCOS - polycystic ovarian syndrome, especially so on my right side. This is a really common cause for infertility in women, and explains why my periods weren’t always super regular when I was growing up - though I think mine was a pretty mild rendition of it all things considered, as I never had any other symptoms. The real kicker though, was that the egg for this baby came from my right ovary, which was the more problematic one of the two. The gynae told us that if we hadn’t gotten pregnant this time around, we might’ve had a hard time conceiving down the road.  
 
It was then when I finally felt that maybe this baby wasn’t so “unplanned” after all.  
 
It still took me a long time to come to terms with the pregnancy, and to figure out how I was going to break the news to everyone. I was afraid mostly, of judgment that we weren’t able to do the “right” thing and stick to our plan. I’m a really social person by nature, but till date (halfway through!) I’ve yet to publicly announce it on my social media, and I’ve only shared it with selected trustworthy people.  
 
**Second Trimester and Beyond** 

This is what they call the honeymoon phase of your pregnancy - the second trimester. I have my energy back 100%, I don’t feel any pain (except from slight tightness in my belly from all the expanding and hardening that’s going on in there), and I certainly have no nausea or food aversions anymore.  
 
I’ve never felt more womanly in my life and it’s still a huge adjustment, because even with a lack of general physical discomfort, it’s obvious things are different - even getting up from bed or the sofa takes a little extra effort. But I’ve embraced my new boobs and my new figure, and while online shopping is a little harder than usual, it hasn’t stopped me, and I’ve got loads of pretty things in my wardrobe waiting to hug my growing belly.  
 
Also I haven’t kicked my bad habit of Googling - I still look things up, about delivery especially because I’m an absolute wimp about hospitals and can’t believe I’m going to have to lie there with my legs open and push a baby out at some point. But I guess with all things in parenthood we just learn as we go and hope for the best.  

Thank God for our little girl (yup it’s confirmed!) who has pulled through every test so far BEAUTIFULLY like with flying colours for real. And also thank God for my husband, who persuaded me to pen this down properly, and coded a blog for me to put it up on?! And who just told me he’s actually THE content system for the blog - he’ll be putting it all up for me. This kind of guy where to find?!  
